what is react?
ReactJS is an open-source JavaScript library which is used for building user interfaces specifically for single page applications
currently most popoluar ,last two year downloads show it that it is almost 5 to 6 times more popular than it's competitor ,like angular and vue.js
visit:https://www.tecla.io/blog/2019-stats-on-top-js-frameworks-react-angular-and-vue/
Almost every big mnc are using react at present
ex: Amazon apple Facebbok google Microsoft netflix uber snapchat
or any big company you name it

why react?

three main reason
1.performace
  a.Virtual DOM in ReactJS makes user experience better and developer’s work faster
  b.Fast Devlopment

2.Easy to learn ,fast learning curves
  a.Permission to reuse React components significantly saves time
  b.One-direction data flow in ReactJS provides a stable code ,it is problem in other way round
  c.It provides JSX -->JSX is an XML/HTML-like syntax used by React that extends ECMAScript so that XML/HTML-like text 
    can co-exist with JavaScript/React code. ... Unlike the past, instead of putting JavaScript into HTML, JSX allows us to put HTML into JavaScript

3.community support
  a.As it is used by facebook,so lot of people are using react ,almost every imformation or issue faced by react developer aand their solution are floating in web
  b.Well documented
  c.great developer tools
  d.Flux and redux data workflow techniques we can use

4.Native approach->
  a.React can  also be used to create mobile applications (React Native).  React is a diehard fan of reusability, meaning extensive code reusability is supported. So at the same time we can make IOS, Android and Web application
  

Why hooks?

so after lot of advantages over its competitor ,i would like to ask what are the points where react still sucks?

here is the list of three problems where react still sucks
Problems->

 1 reusing logic
   two main pattern we use for this are
   a.higher order component
   b.Render props
   
 it causes wrapper hell,you will end up finding the data no where

  2.Giant components->like here we are using lot of lifecycle methods
  and componentDidMount ..... so code becomes very large 
  example


 3.Confusing classes->
   class is very diffuct in javascript to get use to be with.  
 if you ever lookde at compiled magnified file
 1.you will see all the methods name are still unmagnified
 2.it is hard to find how methods are going to arranged in  magnified files


if we evaluate these three problems we will find out that these are not seperate problems but are symptoms of one single problem
i.e "React does not provide a statuful primitive simpler than a class component" 



